MIGRATION.md, before:


# Migration

## Migrating from v2 to v3

### Mixins

- The `oOverlay` mixin now includes all styles required for overlays and outputs CSS selectors as well as properties and values. See the [Sass documentation](README.md#sass) for information on the new parameters
- The following mixins have been removed, their styles can now be included using the `oOverlay` mixin parameters:
  - `oOverlayCompactClose`
  - `oOverlayCompactContent`
  - `oOverlayCompactHeading`
  - `oOverlayCompactTitle`
  - `oOverlayContent`
  - `oOverlayFullscreen`
  - `oOverlayHeading`
  - `oOverlayHeadingShaded`
  - `oOverlayHeadingShadedClose`
  - `oOverlayIncludeAll`
  - `oOverlayShadow`
  - `oOverlayTitle`
- Rename:
  - `oOverlayClose` to `oOverlayContentClose`

### Color use-cases

- All of the deprecated o-colors use-cases have been removed:
  - `o-overlay`
  - `o-overlay-close`
  - `o-overlay-close-shaded`
  - `o-overlay-heading`
  - `o-overlay-heading-shaded`

### JavaScript API

- The `Overlay` constructor now throws an error if the `id` parameter is not unique
- The deprecated `parentNode` option has been removed. Use `parentnode` instead
- The deprecated `noFocus` option has been removed. Use `nofocus` instead
- The deprecated `visuallyHideTitle` option has been removed. Use `visuallyhidetitle` instead

### ES Modules

v5 uses [ES Modules over CommonJS](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2018/03/es-modules-a-cartoon-deep-dive/) syntax. We recommend to include `o-overlay` using the es modules syntax.

```diff
-const Overlay = require('o-overlay');
+import Overlay from 'o-overlay';
```

However to use the CommonJS syntax, without a plugin like [babel-plugin-transform-es2015-modules-commonjs](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-es2015-modules-commonjs), add `.default` to access `o-overlay` methods.

```diff
-const Overlay = require('o-overlay');
+const Overlay = require('o-overlay').default;
```

### CSS

- The default `z-index` value for the overlay has increased from `10` to `11`. This _may_ cause issues on your site if anything has relied on the exact value of `10` in the past.
- o-typography is now used for typographic styles, which results in small changes to element sizes, e.g. the heading element's height has been reduced by `1px`

### Updated dependencies

The dependencies for this component have all been updated to the latest major versions.
If you have any conflicts while installing this version, you'll need to first update
its dependencies. See [the Bower config for these](./bower.json).

## Migrating from v1 to v2

- Arrows functionality has now been removed. __Resolution__ If you need an overlay with an arrow, please use [o-tooltip](http://github.com/financial-times/o-tooltip).
- A dependency on [o-icons](http://github.com/financial-times/o-icons) v4 or v5 has been introduced. This will break any builds that use o-icons <v3. __Resolution__: Ideally you should upgrade to o-icons v5, but if you still need to use the old icon set (in v4) then upgrading to o-icons v4 will also work.
- A dependency on [o-visual-effects](http://github.com/financial-times/o-visual-effects) v1 has been introduced. This will break any builds that use o-visual-effects <v1. __Resolution__: Update to v1 of o-visual-effects.
- A dependency on [o-normalise](http://github.com/financial-times/o-normalise) v1 has been introduced. This is not likely to introduce any conflicts as it is only v1.
- The mixin oOverlayCompactCloseIcon (deprecated in v1.3.0) has been removed. __Resolution__ Use the `@oOverlayCloseIcon` mixin.
- All extends (deprecated in v1.2.0) have been removed. __Resolution__: Use the mixins instead.
- The o-colors and o-visual-effects dependencies have been bumped to the latest major. These will create bower conflicts which should be resolved by updating to the newest release of o-colors and o-visual-effects.

Commit message:

Restore o-layers features, remove o-layers
- Overlays will continue to close when new overlays are created,
unless the `layer` option is set to `false`.
- There's a direct map from one event to another for simplier
migration.

`o-overlay` is in need of review and refactor. Likely we want to
remove most of its options in a future major, including the
nested/layer options, and update events (destroy is fired on
close it seems).

MIGRATION.md, after:

# Migration

## Migrating from v3 to v4

- The `oLayers.new` event is removed, use `oOverlay.layerOpen` instead.
- The `oLayers.close` event is removed, use `oOverlay.layerClose` instead.

_Note: When replacing `o-layers` events (`oLayers.close`, `oLayers.new`) make sure they are used only for responding to `o-overlay` and not other packages your project depends on, which may also fire `o-layers` events. That's unlikely. `o-layers` is deprecated and is not used by any other maintained Origami components._

## Migrating from v2 to v3

### Mixins

- The `oOverlay` mixin now includes all styles required for overlays and outputs CSS selectors as well as properties and values. See the [Sass documentation](README.md#sass) for information on the new parameters
- The following mixins have been removed, their styles can now be included using the `oOverlay` mixin parameters:
  - `oOverlayCompactClose`
  - `oOverlayCompactContent`
  - `oOverlayCompactHeading`
  - `oOverlayCompactTitle`
  - `oOverlayContent`
  - `oOverlayFullscreen`
  - `oOverlayHeading`
  - `oOverlayHeadingShaded`
  - `oOverlayHeadingShadedClose`
  - `oOverlayIncludeAll`
  - `oOverlayShadow`
  - `oOverlayTitle`
- Rename:
  - `oOverlayClose` to `oOverlayContentClose`

### Color use-cases

- All of the deprecated o-colors use-cases have been removed:
  - `o-overlay`
  - `o-overlay-close`
  - `o-overlay-close-shaded`
  - `o-overlay-heading`
  - `o-overlay-heading-shaded`

### JavaScript API

- The `Overlay` constructor now throws an error if the `id` parameter is not unique
- The deprecated `parentNode` option has been removed. Use `parentnode` instead
- The deprecated `noFocus` option has been removed. Use `nofocus` instead
- The deprecated `visuallyHideTitle` option has been removed. Use `visuallyhidetitle` instead

### ES Modules

v5 uses [ES Modules over CommonJS](https://hacks.mozilla.org/2018/03/es-modules-a-cartoon-deep-dive/) syntax. We recommend to include `o-overlay` using the es modules syntax.

```diff
-const Overlay = require('o-overlay');
+import Overlay from 'o-overlay';
```

However to use the CommonJS syntax, without a plugin like [babel-plugin-transform-es2015-modules-commonjs](https://babeljs.io/docs/en/babel-plugin-transform-es2015-modules-commonjs), add `.default` to access `o-overlay` methods.

```diff
-const Overlay = require('o-overlay');
+const Overlay = require('o-overlay').default;
```

### CSS

- The default `z-index` value for the overlay has increased from `10` to `11`. This _may_ cause issues on your site if anything has relied on the exact value of `10` in the past.
- o-typography is now used for typographic styles, which results in small changes to element sizes, e.g. the heading element's height has been reduced by `1px`

### Updated dependencies

The dependencies for this component have all been updated to the latest major versions.
If you have any conflicts while installing this version, you'll need to first update
its dependencies. See [the Bower config for these](./bower.json).

## Migrating from v1 to v2

- Arrows functionality has now been removed. __Resolution__ If you need an overlay with an arrow, please use [o-tooltip](http://github.com/financial-times/o-tooltip).
- A dependency on [o-icons](http://github.com/financial-times/o-icons) v4 or v5 has been introduced. This will break any builds that use o-icons <v3. __Resolution__: Ideally you should upgrade to o-icons v5, but if you still need to use the old icon set (in v4) then upgrading to o-icons v4 will also work.
- A dependency on [o-visual-effects](http://github.com/financial-times/o-visual-effects) v1 has been introduced. This will break any builds that use o-visual-effects <v1. __Resolution__: Update to v1 of o-visual-effects.
- A dependency on [o-normalise](http://github.com/financial-times/o-normalise) v1 has been introduced. This is not likely to introduce any conflicts as it is only v1.
- The mixin oOverlayCompactCloseIcon (deprecated in v1.3.0) has been removed. __Resolution__ Use the `@oOverlayCloseIcon` mixin.
- All extends (deprecated in v1.2.0) have been removed. __Resolution__: Use the mixins instead.
- The o-colors and o-visual-effects dependencies have been bumped to the latest major. These will create bower conflicts which should be resolved by updating to the newest release of o-colors and o-visual-effects.
